## Two types of Normal forms
1. Chomsky Normal Form (CNF)
   1. LHS -> RHS
   2. Exactlt 1 N.T. -> Exactly 2 N.T. or Exactly 1 T.
   3. S -> AB, B -> AB, A ->a
2. Greibach Normal Form (GNF)
   1. LHS -> RHS
   2. Exactly 1 N.T. -> 1 T. followed by 0 or more N.T.
   3. A -> a, B -> cDEF, C -> deFG

> Null Productions are not allowed in CNF & GNF.
> But S -> null is allowed & S must be in RHS of any production.
> Unit Productions are not allowed in CNF & GNF.

# Questions

## 1. S -> AB, A -> a, B -> b
- All three satisfy condition of CNF
- S -> AB does not satisfy condition of GNF

## 2. S -> aAB, A -> aA, B -> bB
- All three does not satisfy condition of CNF
- All three satisfy condition of GNF

## S -> aS|$\epsilon$
- S -> $\epsilon$ is present with S in RHS as well
- So, neither CNF nor GNF

## S -> aSa|bSb|a|b
- aSa, bSb are not in CNF
- aSa, bSb are in not GNF
- Overall, neither CNF nor GNF

## S -> aSB|bSB|a, B -> a
- S -> aSB, bSB are not in CNF
- All are in GNF.

## S -> AB|CD|EF, A -> XY, B -> CD, C -> a, D -> b
- All satify CNF
- S -> AB|CD|EF, A -> XY, B -> CD does not satisfy GNF

## S -> a, A -> a, B -> a
- Both CNF & GNF

## S -> $\epsilon$|aA, A -> aB|b
- S -> $\epsilon$ is presnet but S is not there in RHS of any production so no need to worry.
- S -> aA, A -> aB are not in CNF
- All are in GNF.

## Algo for conversion of CFG to Equivalent CNF
1. Any CFG with L(G) $\neq$ $\phi$ can be converted to CNF.

- S1: If S -> $\epsilon$ is present in CFG & S appear in RHS of any production rule(s) then add augmented(extra) production S'->S to CFG. Now our new start symbol is S'.
- S2: Remove all Null Producitons
- S3: Remove all Unit Productions
- S4: Apply necessary reductions.

## Q1. S -> abcdXYZ
- S1: No S -> $\epsilon$ is present
- S2: No Null Production present
- S3: No Unit Production present
- S4: Reduction is Possible
  - S -> AB, A -> a, B -> CD, C -> b, D -> EF, E -> c, F -> GH, G -> d, H -> IZ, I -> XY
  - **Second Method**
  - Consider like:- S -> ABCDXYZ
  - A -> a, B -> b, C -> c, D -> d, S -> AE, E -> BF, F -> EG, G -> DH, H -> XI, I -> YZ
- Converted to CNF

## Q2. S -> aBcDe, B -> b, D -> a
- S1: No S -> $\epsilon$ is present
- S2: No Null Production present
- S3: No Unit Production present
- S4: Reduction is Possible
  - Consider like:- S -> ABCDE
  - A -> a, C -> c, E -> e, B -> b, D -> a, S -> FG, F -> AB, G -> HI, H -> CD, I -> E

## Q3. S -> aS|$\epsilon$
- S1: S -> $\epsilon$ is present & S is there in RHS of production rule so add augmented production.
  - S' -> S, S -> aS|$\epsilon$
- S2: Null Production is present
  - **Removing S -> $\epsilon$**
  - S' -> S|$\epsilon$, S -> aS|a
  - S is present in S' with no neightbour so added $\epsilon$ with S', S is present in RHS of S -> aS so added a with S.
- S3: Unit Production Present
  - **Removing S' -> S**
  - S' -> $\epsilon$|aS|a, S -> aS|a
- S4: Apply Reductions
  - CNF will not allow 'aS' rest is allowed
  - S' -> AS|a|$\epsilon$, S -> AS|a, A -> a
- Converted to CNF