## Some Basic Conceptual Questions
#### 1. Language is regular iff there exist RG generating it || there exist FA accepting it. ✅
#### 2. Language is CF iff there exist PDA accepting it || there exist CFG generating it. ✅
#### 3. Language is CS iff there exist LBA accepting it || there exist CSG generating it. ✅
#### 4. Language is RE iff there exist TM accepting it || there exist Type-0 Grammar generating it. ✅
#### 5. If there is Regular Grammar generating L then L is Regular Language. ✅
#### 6. If there is Regular Grammar generating L then L is CF,CS,RE Language. ✅
#### 7. If there is CFG generating L then L is Regular Language. ❌
#### 8. If there is CFG generating L then L may be Regular Language. ✅

## Some Basic Implications
#### 1. Regular Language is CF,CS,RE Language.
#### 2. CF Language is CS,RE Language.
#### 3. CS Language is RE Language.
#### 4. CF may or may not be Regular Language.
#### 5. CS may or may not be CF,RG Language.

## Questions

#### 1. Language for it
- S -> AS1/S1B
- S1 -> aS1b/$\epsilon$
- A -> aA/$\epsilon$
- B -> bB/B

#### Options:
1. L(G) is Regular
2. L(G) is CF
3. L(G) is CS
4. L(G) is RE

#### Answer:
- We are given from 2 options to select
- Solving AS1
    - S1 = {a<sup>n</sup>b<sup>n</sup> | n >= 0}
    - A = {a<sup>n</sup> | n >= 0} (Any number of a)
    - AS1 = {a<sup>m</sup>b<sup>n</sup> | m >= n }
- Solving S1B
    - S1 = {a<sup>n</sup>b<sup>n</sup> | n >= 0}
    - B = {b<sup>n</sup> | n >= 1} (At least one b)
    - S1B = {a<sup>m</sup>b<sup>n</sup> | m < n }

- S = {a<sup>m</sup>b<sup>n</sup> | m >= n } U {a<sup>m</sup>b<sup>n</sup> | m < n }
- S = {a<sup>m</sup>b<sup>n</sup> | m,n >= 0 }

- So, the answer is A,B,C,D

## Question: L = {$a^{m}b^{n} | m \geq 2n}
- L = {$a^{m}b^{n} | m = 2n} + {$a^{m}b^{n} | m > 2n}
- Considering the first one
    - L = {$a^{2n}b^{n} | n \geq 0}
    - S -> aaS1b | $\epsilon$
- Considering the second one
    - The greater than condition we can create by adding number of a's
- $\therefore$ Answer is:
    - S -> aaS1b | aA | $\epsilon$
    - A -> aA | $\epsilon$

## Question: L = {$a^{m}b^{n} | m \ge 2n+3$}
- L = {$a^{2n+3}b^{n} | n \ge 0 $} + greater than condition
- First one
    - S -> aaSb | aaa
- Adding greater than condition
    - S -> aaSb | aaa | aA
    - A -> aA | $\epsilon$
- This can generate $\epsilon$ through aA
- $\therefore$ Answer is:
    - S -> aaSb | aaaA
    - A -> aA | $\epsilon$
    - Added aaaA as we need minimum 3 a's, more after that

## Question: L = {$a^{m}b^{n} | m=n OR m=2n $}
- L = {$a^{m}b^{n} | m=n $} U {$a^{m}b^{n} | m=2n $}
- L = {$a^{n}b^{n} | n \ge 0 $} U {$a^{2n}b^{n} | n \ge 0 $}
- S -> S1/S2
- S1 -> aS1b | $\epsilon$
- S2 -> aaS2b | $\epsilon$

## Question: L = {$a^{m}b^{n} | m \le n \e 2m $}
- L can contain aaabbb, aaabbbb, aaabbbbb, aaabbbbbb for m=3
- Here we can see that either we can make a with b or a with bb
- $\therefore$ Answer is:
    - S -> aSb | aSbb | $\epsilon$

## Question: L = {$a^{m}b^{n} | m \le n \e 3m $}
- L can contain aabb, aabbb, aabbbb, aabbbbb, aabbbbbb for m=2
- Here we can see that either we can make a with b or a with bb or a with bbb
- S -> aSb | aSbb | aSbbb | $\epsilon$