## Closure Properties of CFL

**Reversal**
- CFL is closed over reversal, i.e. if $L$ is CFL then $L^{T}$ is alslo CFL.

**Concatenation**
- CFL is closed over concatenation, i.e. if $L_{1}$ & $L_{2}$ is CFL then $L_{1}.L_{2}$ is also CFL.

**Union**
- Closed i.e.  if $L_{1}$ & $L_{2}$ is CFL then $L_{1} \cup L_{2}$ is also CFL.

**Intersection**
- CFL is not closed under intersection.
- Ex: 
    - $L_{1}$ = { $a^{n}b^{n}c^{m} | n,m \ge 0$ }
    - $L_{2}$ = { $a^{n}b^{m}c^{m} | n,m \ge 0$ }
    - $L_{1} \cap L_{2}$ = { $a^{n}b^{n}c^{n} | n \ge 0$ }
- Here the intersection is CSL.
- CFL $\cap$ CFL = CSL (Always)
- CFL $\cap$ CFL = CFL (Sometimes)
- CFL $\cap$ CFL = Regular (Sometimes)

**Compliment**
- CFL is not closed under compliment
- Ex:
    - $L$ = { $a^{n}b^{m}c^{p} | n = m || m =p$ }
    - $L^{C}$ = { $a^{n}b^{m}c^{p} | n != m \& \& m!=p$ } $\cup$ ...
    - In Compliment we get two comparisons with & operator in between. So, it is a CSL.
- $CFL^{C}$ = CSL (Always)
- $CFL^{C}$ = CFL (Sometimes)
- $CFL^{C}$ = Regular (Sometimes)

**Set Difference**
- CFL is not closed under compliment
- Formula for $L_{1} - L_{2}$ = $L_{1}$ $\cap$ $L_{2}^{C}$
- Now compliment sometimes is not CFl as well same goes with intersection so set difference may not be CFL sometimes.

**Union with Regular**
- It is closed and will give CFL

**Intersection with Regular**
- It is closed and will give CFL

**CFL - Regular = CFL**
**Regular - CFL = CSL**

## Closure properties of CSL

**Reversal**
- L = { $a^{n}b^{n}c^{n} | n \ge 0$ }
- $L^{R}$ = { $c^{n}b^{n}a^{n} | n \ge 0$ }
- It is closed under Reversal.

**Concatenation**
- Closed under concatenation

**Union**
- CLosed

**Compliment**
- CLosed

**Intersection**
- CLosed

**Set Difference**
- Closed

**Union with Regular**
- Closed

**Intersection with Regular**
- CLosed

**CSL - Regular = CSL**
**Regular - CSL = CSL**

### $\cup$ and compliment close ==> $\cap$ closed
### $\cap$ and compliment close ==> $\cup$ closed
