## Practice Questions

**Regular Languages are closed under**
1. Union
2. Intersection
3. Complement
4. Set Difference  
**Ans:** 1, 2, 3, 4

**CFls are closed under**
1. Union
2. Intersection
3. Complement
4. Set Difference  
**Ans:** 1

**Which Languages are closed under Union Operation**
1. Regular
2. CFL
3. CSL
4. RE
5. REC  
**Ans:** 1, 2, 3, 4, 5

**Which Languages are closed under Complement Operation**
1. Regular
2. CFL
3. CSL
4. RE
5. REC  
**Ans:** 1, 3, 5

**L1 and L2 are two Regular Languages. Which of the following is Regular?**
1. L1 U L2
2. L1 ∩ L2
3. L1 - L2
4. $L1^{R}$  
**Ans:** 1, 2, 3, 4

**L1 and L2 are two CFLs. Which of the following is CFL?**
1. L1 U L2
2. L1 ∩ L2
3. L1 - L2
4. $L1^{R}$  
**Ans:** 1,4

**L1 is CSL and L2 is CFL. Which of the following is CSL?**
1. L1 U L2
2. L1 ∩ L2
3. L1 - L2
4. $L1^{R}$  
**Ans:** 1, 2, 3, 4
**Explanation:** Here under two different languages, we do upgradation of language, i.e. CFL U CSL = CSL U CSL = CSL, CFL ∩ CSL = CSL ∩ CSL = CSL, CSL - CFL = CSL ∩ $\overline{CFL}$ = CSL ∩ CSL = CSL, $CSL^{R}$ = CSL

**L1 is CSL and L2 is REC. Which of the following is REC?**
1. L1 U L2
2. L1 ∩ L2
3. L1 - L2
4. L1 . L2
**Ans:** 1, 2, 3, 4
**Explanation:** Here under two different languages, we do upgradation of language, eah CSl will be upgraded to REC.

**L1 is CSL and L2 is RE. Which of the following is RE?**
1. L1 U L2
2. L1 ∩ L2
3. L1 - L2
4. L1 . L2
5. L2 - L1
**Ans:** 1, 2, 4, 5  
**Explanation:** Here under two different languages, we do upgradation of language, eah CSl will be upgraded to RE, RE ∩ CSL = RE ∩ RE = RE, RE U CSL = RE U RE = RE, CSL - RE = CSL ∩ $\overline{RE}$ = CSL ∩ L (L may or may not be RE), So given option may or may not be RE. For L2 - L1, RE - CSL = RE ∩ $\overline{CSL}$ = RE ∩ CSL = RE ∩ RE = RE, So it is RE.

```
In case of Union and Intersection with Regular Languages, we do not need to upgrade the language. i.e. R ∩ CFL = R, Don't do R ∩ CFL = CFL ∩ CFL = CSL.
```

**L1 is Regular and L2 is CFL. Which of the following is CFL?**
1. L1 U L2
2. L1 ∩ L2
3. L1 - L2
4. L1 . L2
**Ans:** 1, 2, 4  
**Explanation:** Union and Intersection with Regular are closed so those two will be CFL. But for L1 - L2, Regular - CFL = Regular ∩ $\overline{CFL}$ = Regular ∩ CSL = CSL, So it is CSL. (Here we haven't done upgradation we just solved complement first and then did intersection with Regular)

**If L1 -> Regular, L2 -> CFL, L3 -> CSL then L1 U L2 ∩ L3 is**  
**Precedence:** Complement > ∩ > U⭐  
**Ans:** CSL  
**Explanation:** L1 U L2 ∩ L3 = R U (CFL ∩ CSL) = R U CSL = CSL

## Secondary Operations

1. L1 - L2 -> L1 ∩ $\overline{L2}$
2. L1 $\oplus$ L2 -> (L1 - L2) U (L2 - L1)
3. L1 => L2 -> $\overline{L1}$ U L2
4. L1 <=> L2 -> (L1 ∩ L2) U ($\overline{L1}$ ∩ $\overline{L2}$)
5. $\overline{(L1.L2)}$ -> $\overline{(L1 ∩ L2)}$ = $\overline{L1}$ U $\overline{L2}$
6. $\overline{(L1 + L2)}$ -> $\overline{(L1 ∪ L2)}$ = $\overline{L1}$ . $\overline{L2}$

**L1 -> Regular and L2 -> CFL, then perform above six operations on it.**  
1. R - CFL = R ∩ $\overline{CFL}$ = R ∩ CSL = CSL
2. R $\oplus$ CFL = (R - CFL) U (CFL - R) = (R ∩ $\overline{CFL}$) U (CFL ∩ $\overline{R}$) = (R ∩ CSL) U (CFL ∩ R) = CSL U CFL = CSL
3. R => CFL = $\overline{R}$ U CFL = R U CFL = CFL
4. R <=> CFL = (R ∩ CFL) U ($\overline{R}$ ∩ $\overline{CFL}$) = (R ∩ CFL) U (R ∩ CSL) = CFL U CSL = CSL
5. $\overline{(R.CFL)}$ = $\overline{R}$ U $\overline{CFL}$ = R U CSL = CSL
6. $\overline{(R + CFL)}$ = $\overline{R}$ . $\overline{CFL}$ = R . CSL = CSL  
**Ans: [CSL, CSL, CFL, CSL, CSL, CSL]**

**L1 -> CFL and L2 -> RE, then perform above six operations on it.**  
1. CFL - RE = CFL ∩ $\overline{RE}$ = CFL ∩ L (L may or may not be RE) = RE or Non-RE
2. CFL $\oplus$ RE = (CFL - RE) U (RE - CFL) = (CFL ∩ $\overline{RE}$) U (RE ∩ $\overline{CFL}$) = (CFL ∩ L) U (RE ∩ $\overline{CFL}$) = RE or Non-RE
3. CFL => RE = $\overline{CFL}$ U RE = RE
4. CFL <=> RE = (CFL ∩ RE) U ($\overline{CFL}$ ∩ $\overline{RE}$) = (CFL ∩ RE) U (CSL ∩ L) = RE or Non-RE
5. $\overline{(CFL.RE)}$ = $\overline{CFL}$ U $\overline{RE}$ = RE or Non-RE
6. $\overline{(CFL + RE)}$ = $\overline{CFL}$ . $\overline{RE}$ = RE or Non-RE

**L1 -> REC and L2 -> CFL, then perform above six operations on it.**  
1. REC - CFL = REC ∩ $\overline{CFL}$ = REC ∩ CSL = REC
2. REC $\oplus$ CFL = (REC - CFL) U (CFL - REC) = (REC ∩ $\overline{CFL}$) U (CFL ∩ $\overline{REC}$) = (REC ∩ CSL) U (CFL ∩ REC) = REC U REC = REC
3. REC => CFL = $\overline{REC}$ U CFL = REC U CFL = REC
4. REC <=> CFL = (REC ∩ CFL) U ($\overline{REC}$ ∩ $\overline{CFL}$) = (REC ∩ CFL) U (REC ∩ CSL) = REC U REC = REC
5. $\overline{(REC.CFL)}$ = $\overline{REC}$ U $\overline{CFL}$ = REC U CSL = REC
6. $\overline{(REC + CFL)}$ = $\overline{REC}$ . $\overline{CFL}$ = REC . CSL = REC  
**Ans: [REC, REC, REC, REC, REC, REC]**