## Questions

**L1 = {$ a^{n}b^{m} | n, m \geq 0 $} and L2 = {$ a^{n}b^{n} | n \geq 0 $} then L1 U L2 is**
- [x] Regular
- [x] CFL
- [x] CSL
- [x] RE  
**Explanation**
- By closure property we know it will be CFL, So it will be CFL, CSL and RE for sure. As Regular is given in option we need to check for it.
- L2 is subset of L1, so L1 U L2 = L1 = Regular and hence it is regular so it is also CFL, CSL, RE.

**L1 = {$ a^{n}b^{m} | n, m \geq 0 $} and L2 = {$ a^{n}b^{n} | n \geq 0 $} then L1 - L2 is**
- [ ] Regular
- [x] CFL
- [x] CSL
- [x] RE  
**Explanation**
- From Closure property we know it will be CSL, So CSL and RE would be answers for sure. As, Regular and CFL are given in options we need to check for it.
- L1 - L2 = {$ a^{n}b^{m} | n \neq m $} whic his CFL but not Regular.

**L1 = {$ a^{n}b^{m} | n, m \geq 0 $} and L2 = {$ c^{n}d^{n} | n \geq 0 $} then L1 - L2 is**
- [ ] Regular
- [x] CFL
- [x] CSL
- [x] RE  
**Explanation**
- L1 - L2 = $\phi$ because both have different $\Sigma^{*}$, So, it is Regular, CFL, CSL and RE.

> Union, Intersection, Concatenation and Set Difference are one way theorem:  
   >> L1 is Regualar and L2 is Regular then L1 U L2 is Regular. ✅(P ->Q)  
   >> L1 U L2 is Regular then L1 is Regular and L2 is Regular. ❌(Q -> P)   
   >> L1 is not Regular or L2 is not Regular then L1 U L2 is not Regular. ❌(~P -> ~Q)
   >> L1 U L2 is not Regular then L1 is not Regular or L2 is not Regular. ✅(~Q -> ~P)

> Union of Language with it's complement is always Regular, as it will be $\Sigma^{*}$.

### Question
**L1 U L2 is Regular then**
- [ ] Both L1 and L2 are Regular
- [ ] At least one of L1 and L2 is Regular
- [x] Both need not be Regular
- [ ] None of the above  
**Talking about opion b then we discussed above language and it's complement is Regular, so language is not necessary to be regular**

> Intersection of Language and it's complement is always Regular, as it will be $\phi$.

### Question
**L1 ∩ L2 is Regular then**
- [ ] Both L1 and L2 are Regular
- [ ] At least one of L1 and L2 is Regular
- [x] Both need not be Regular
- [ ] None of the above 

> Same goes for the CFL thing, If the L is CSL but not CFL and we get it's complement also as it's CSL but not CFL then we get answer as Regular ans so it is CFL as well for both union and intersection.

>If we concatenate any language with $\phi$ we get answer as $\phi$.

**Example**  
L1 = {$a^{n}b^{m} | n \neq m $} (CFL)  
L2 = {$b^{i}a^{j} | i \neq j $} (CFL)  
- For concatenation let's take some cases  
L1' = {$b^{m+i} | m+i \ge 2 $}  
L2' = {$a^{n}b^{m+i} | n \neq 0, m+i \ge 1$}  
L3' = {$b^{m+i}a^{j} | j \neq 0, m+i \ge 1$}  
L4' = {$ab^{m+i}a | m+i \neq 1}  
L5' = {$a^{n}b^{m+i}a^{j} | n,j \ge 2, m+i \ge 0$}
L1.L2 = L1' U L2' U L3' L4' U L5'  
- All are regular so their will also be regular.
- Hence proved that for concatenation to be regular both language need not to be Regular.

> Same way we can say for set difference, example not discussed here.