# Reduction of Grammar

- S -> aS| $\epsilon$ |aA
- A -> aA|bB|bA
- Here if from S we go to A through aA then it will never terminate.
- So below 3 and aA production are of no use
- So reduced to S -> aS| $\epsilon$

### Useless Symbols
- Non-terminal which are not terminating
- Terminal & Non-terminal which are not reachable from S.

### A non-terminating which is reachable from S & is terminating may or may not be useful
- Example: S -> AB|a, A -> aA| $\epsilon$
- Here, A is Reachable as well as terminal but it is useless as B written with it is not terminal.
- So, reduced to S -> a

## Unit Production removal from grammar
- Ex: A ->B, B -> C, C -> D, D -> a
- Here, A -> B, B ->C, C -> D, unit production are removed and made A ->a the new production.

- Ex: S -> aA|A, A -> aA|bA| $\epsilon$
- If, we remove S -> A unit production and make
- S -> aA|bA| $\epsilon$, A -> aA|bA| $\epsilon$
- Earlier for $\epsilon$ 2 steps were required, but after removing unit production only 1 step is required.

## Remove Null Production
- Null Productions Ex: A -> $\epsilon$ , B -> $\epsilon$

## Removal of Useless Symbols
- We have seen what we call useless symbols above
- S1: Remove those non-terminal from which string of terminal can't be generated.
- S2: Remove those Non-terminals & Terminals whih are not reachable from S.
<br/>

- S -> aS| $\epsilon$ |aA, A -> bB|aA
- A is non-terminal so removing A related productions.
- Ans: S -> aS| $\epsilon$
<br/>

- S -> AB|AC|BC|BD, B -> b, C ->cEd, E -> cEd|cd
- Here, A & D are non-terminal so removing A & D related productions.
- S -> BC, B -> b, C ->cEd, E -> cEd|cd

## Q. Remove those Non-terminals which do not terminate from this Grammar S -> aS|a|bB|bC, B -> b, C -> aCd|E, E -> d, D ->e, F -> g
  - Here S, B, E, D, F are terminals after step 1.
  - After step 2, S, B, C, E, D, F are terminals.
- So every Non-terminals get terminate in this grammar.

## S -> AB, A -> aA|a
- L = $\phi$ as B is not terminating and due to which we will remove the production of S and hence no production for S will be left.
