# Pumping Length

- Suppose there is a regular Language L, it will have a positive integer p such that any string s in L with length >= p can be split into 2 parts:
    - w $\notin$ RL
    - If w $\in$ RL, then w must contain a substring which can be pumped any no. of times & all string generated by pumping that section of w must $\in$ RL.
    - p is the length of the repeating string.
    - Length of substring is 1 to p.

- Example:
  - PL = 3
  - w = 101
  - if the repeating substring is 0 then,
  - 11, 101, 1001, 10001, all $\in$ L.
  - It will be written as $10^{*}1$.

## Definition
-  For every regular language L $\exists$ a positive integer P called Pumping Length such that all possible strings whose length is $\geq$ p, if they $\in$ L then they must have a substring whose length is from 1 to p. Which can replaced any no. of times & all strings thus produced must $\in$ L.

- In **Other Words,** If L is regular, then there is some magic number P (Called Pumping Length). And if we take any string w $\in$ L that is atLeast as long as P, then we can break it into three parts x,y, and z. Where |xy| $\leq$ P, and also |P| $\geq$ 1 and less than or equal to P.
  - **In very simple words,** if L is a regular language then there is some positive number P associated with L such that for all strings w $\in$ L of length $\geq$ P, we find some non-empty substring y in w **within first P symbols of w** such that when we repeat y zero or more number of times then the produced string also belong to L.

## Important Points
1. Minimum P.L. $\geq$ 1.
2. M.P.L. $\leq$ no. of states in minimum DFA.
3. M.P.L. $\leq$ n-1, where n is the no. of states in minimum DFA and DFA has Dead State.
4. M.P.L. $\gt w_{min}$ where $w_{min}$ is min. length of string in L.
5. If L is a finite Language then M.P.L. = |w| + 1, where w is the longest string in L.
6. M.P.L. for L = $\phi$ is 1.
7. M.P.L. for L = { $\epsilon$ } is 1.
8. If |w| = M.P.L., then w may not $\in$ L.
9. $L = L_{1} \cup L_{2}$ & $L_{1} \cap L_{2} = \phi$ then M.P.L.(L) $\leq$ max(M.P.L. for $L_{1}$, M.P.L. for $L_{2}$).
    - L = {$a^{n} | n \geq 2 \cup b^{n}$ | n $\geq$ 4}, then P.L. = 5
    - P.L. for first is 3, P.L. for second is 5 $\therefore$ P.L. for L is 5.
10. M.P.L. for $\Sigma^{*}$ is 1.

## From Point 2 & 4
### | $w_{min}$ | $\le$ M.P.L. $\leq$ #States in mDFA 

## Q1 L = 10*1 then Pumping Length =?
- P.L. can't be 0.
- If P.L. = 1
  - All strings of length 1 or more must $\in$ L.
  - 0,1 $\notin$ L
  - P.L. can't be 1.
- If P.L. = 2
  - w = 00, 01, 10, $\notin$ L
  - but 11 $\in$ L
  - If now we say that first 1 is the substring which can be pumped, the smallest string then becomes 1 and 1 $\notin$ L.
  - Similarly we cannot get string $\in$ L if we pump the second 1.
  - If we take the whole 11 as pattern the we get $\epsilon$ which is $\notin$ L.
  - P.L. can't be 2.
- If P.L. = 3
  - w = 101 $\in$ L
  - If we take 0 as the pattern then we get strings 11, 101, 1001, 10001, all $\in$ L.
  - Hence passed for length 3.
- Taking w for P.L. = 4 
  - we get 1001 which satisfy the condition.
- Hence for all length $\geq$ 3, we can find a substring which can be pumped.
- $\therefore$ minimum P.L. = 3.
- We can also say P.L. = 3 or more.
- Minimum P.L. is unique, but P.L. is not unique.