## Ambiguity in CFG
- Ambiguity in CFG is called when through grammar we can derive a string in more than one way.(More than one parse tree possible)
- A CFG will be unambiguous if and only if $\forall$ w $\in$ L(G), $\exists$ only one parse tree for w or $\exists$ only one leftmost derivation for w or $\exists$ only one rightmost derivation for w.
- Number of parse tree for a string w = Number of LMDs = Number of RMDs
- We need to check for each and every string in the language of the grammar.
```
⭐⭐⭐
It any string we are able to construct 1LMD and 1 RMD then we CFG is ambiguous. (No Conclusion)We need to check for all the strings.
```
> Checking given CFG is Ambiguous or not is an undecidable problem, i.e. there is no algorithm to check whether a given CFG is ambiguous or not, only way is Brute Force Method.

## Q1 S -> S+S|a
- For a and a+a we will have only one parse tree
- For a+a+a we will be having 2 parse trees (aSS and SSa where SS in the next steps will be replaced by aa)
- Hence, this grammar is ambiguous.

## Q2 S -> SS|a
- For aaa here as well there will be 2 parse trees.
- Hence, this grammar is ambiguous.

## Q3 S -> aSb|ε
- Here whatever we make we will have only one parse tree
- Hence, this grammar can be unambiguous.

## Q4 S -> aS|bS|ε|A, A -> aA|bA|ε
- Ambiguous, generating ε

## Q5 S -> aA|a, A -> aA|ε
- Ambiguous, generating a

## Q6 S -> aSb|bSa|SS|ε, How many parse trees to generate ε from above grammar?
- $\infty$

## Q8 S -> aSbS|bSaS|ε
- ambiguous, 2 trees for abab (ab.ab or a..b -> abab)

### For Dyke Set we will have infinite parse trees.

## Q9 L = { $a^{n}b^{n}c^{m} \cup a^{n}b^{m}c^{m}$ }
- Construct any CFG for this L, it will be ambiguous.
- Example abc, we can construct it through $a^{n}b^{n}c^{m}$ as well as through $a^{n}b^{m}c^{m}$ (All strings of $a^{n}b^{n}c^{n}$ will be generated for both)
- This type of language is inherently ambiguous language as we can't make any language unambiguously.

### We can't have regular language inherently ambiguous.
### Equal a's and equal b's (CFL not regular) is not inhernetly ambiguous.
