## Countability of $\Sigma^*$

- If $\Sigma$ is a countable set
  - Suppose $\Sigma$ = \{a,b\}
  - $\Sigma^*$ = $\{\epsilon, a, b, aa, ab, ba, bb, aaa, aab, aba, abb, baa, bab, bba, bbb, ...\}$
  - We can map this with $\mathbb{N}$ using Lexicographic ordering length wise. Hence, $\Sigma^*$ is countably infinite.
- From Cantor's Theorem, $2^{\mathbb{N}}$ is uncountably infinite.
  - $\therefore 2^{\mathbb{\Sigma^{*}}}$ is not countably infinite.
  - $2^{\mathbb{\Sigma^{*}}}$ is set of all subsets of $\Sigma^*$.
  - Each subset of $\Sigma^*$ is a language.
  - $\therefore$ Set of all languages over $\Sigma$ is uncountably infinite.

## Countability of TM's

- Set of all Turing Machines is Countable Infinite.
  - Each Turing Machine can be represented as a string of 0s and 1s.
  - So, we take $\Sigma$ = $\{0,1\}$.
  - L = Set of all TM's encoded as strings of 0s and 1s.
  - L is a subset of $\Sigma^*$.
  - $\therefore$ L is countably infinite.
- Hence, Recursive Enumerable Languages are countably infinite.
- All Languages are countably infinite.
- As set of TM's is countably infinite, set of PDAs, LBA's, FA's, etc. are countably infinite.

<br/>

- Since all these sets are countably infinite, their cardinality is same as $\mathbb{N}$ i.e. $\aleph_0$.
```text
|Set of all TM's| = |Set of all PDAs| = |Set of all LBA's| = |Set of all FA's| = $\aleph_0$.

No. of all possible DPDA = No. of all possible NDPDA
```

## Bijection of Languages
- We can always find a bijection between two countably infinite sets.
- We can never find a bijection between a countably infinite set and an uncountably infinite set.
- Bijection between two uncountably infinite sets is possible but not always.

## Extras
- Set of all Non-RE languages is uncountably infinite.
- Each Non-RE language is a subset of $\Sigma^*$, so it is countably infinite.