**L = {$ w.x.w^{T} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*}, x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $}**
**All Possible strings ove a & b**
- Here w $\in$ $\{a,b\}^{*}$ and x $\in$ $\{a,b\}^{*}$.
- Supoose w we take null and consider only x, x over $\{a,b\}^{*}$ generates all strings over  a & b. So, we can make any strinf using x keeping the w as null string.
- So, using x we can make finite Automata and hence it is a regular language.
- Regular ✅


**L = {$ w.x.w^{T} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*}, x \in \{a,b\}^{+} $}**
**All Possible strings ove a & b except null**
- Regular ✅
- Everything just null is not there is x.

**L = {$ w.x.w^{T} | w \in \{a,b\}^{+}, x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $}**
**All Possible strings ove a & b with start and end with same letter and length atleast 2**
- Regular ✅
- Just leave the edge this time as w belongs to $\{a,b\}^{+}$ but yes take smallest string possible which will be a or b, rest things give them to x.

**L = {$ w.x.w^{T} | w \in \{a,b\}^{+}, x \in \{a,b\}^{+} $}**
**All Possible strings ove a & b with start and end with same letter and length atleast 3**
- Regular ✅

**L = {$ w.x.w^{T} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*}, x \in \{a,b\} $}**
**All odd palindromes over a & b**
- Regular ❌

**L = {$ w.x.w^{T} | w \in \{a,b\}, x \in \{a,b\} $}**
- Regular ✅

**L = {$ w.x.w^{T} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*}, x \in \{a,b\}^{*}, |x| \le 5 $}**
- Regular ❌
- As x can eat limited amount of string so higger amount of string remains with w and string comparison occurs.

## L -41
- If we replace $w^{T}$ with w all cases discuss above will have similar output except some discussed below.

## Exceptions
**For L = {$ w.x.w | w \in \{a,b\}^{+}, x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $}**

- First of all, here w cannot be null if it can be null then x can produce all strings over a and b.
- Second taking the first six cases to check:
    - L = {$ a.x.a | x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $} U {$ b.x.b | x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $} U {$ aa.x.aa | x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $} U {$ bb.x.bb | x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $} U {$ ab.x.ab | x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $} U {$ ba.x.ba | x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $}
- Third and 4th cases can fit under 1st and 2nd case respectively.
- For 5th and 6th case, we get a neww regular Language of strings starting and ending with ab and ba respectively.
- So, here x cannot eat up strings in every language as every time a new language is created which is not subset of previous languages.
- Futher, when we go to |w| = 3, we will get few more new cases.
- So, this complete language indeed will become infinite union of regular languages.
- Hence, it is not regular ❌. 

**For L = {$ w.x.w | w \in \{a,b\}^{+}, x \in \{a,b\}^{+} $}**
- Not regular ❌

**For strings like L = {$ x.w.w^{T} | w \in \{a,b\}^{+}, x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $}**
- We can take w as null string and x as any string over a and b.
- Further with the help of this language we can generate any language as all those will be subset of above one.
- So, it is regular ✅

**For the case L = {$ x.w.w^{T} | w \in \{a,b\}^{+}, x \in \{a,b\}^{*} $}**
- It will not be ruglar as discussed in two cases above same logic with increasing |w| there will be new regular strigns getting generated which will not be subset of previous ones.
- Hence, it is not regular ❌



| $w.x.w^{T}$ | w.x.w | $x.w.w^{T}$ | $ w^{T}.w.x $ | $ x.w.w^{T}.y $|Boundary Conditions |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ |
| ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | $\{a,b\}^{*}, \{a,b\}^{*} $|
| ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | $\{a,b\}^{*}, \{a,b\}^{+} $|
| ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | $\{a,b\}^{+}, \{a,b\}^{*} $|
| ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | $\{a,b\}^{+}, \{a,b\}^{+} $|
| ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | $\{a,b\}^{*}, \{a,b\} $|
| ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | $\{a,b\}, \{a,b\}^{*} $| 
| ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | $\{a,b\}, \{a,b\}^{+} $|
| ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | $\{a,b\} , \{a,b\} $|
| ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | $ \{a,b\}^{*}, \{a,b\}^{*} ,|x| \le 5 $|
- Last Row is $ \{a,b\}^{*}, \{a,b\}^{*} ,|x| \le 5 $
