## Gate Questions on Regular Languages

### Question 1
**Any Language which has comparison between a and b is not regular.**
- False
- We have seen examples where we keep n less than some numbe like L = { $a^{n}b^{n} | n < 10,000,000$ } is regular.
- n is finte, if n is finite language is regular

### Question 2
**Any  Language which has string comparison is not regular.**
- Same concept if we have finite n then language is regular.
- Example: L = { $w.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*} \& |w| \le 1000$ } is regular.

### Question 3
**Any Language of palindromes is not regular.**
- False
- Example: L = { $\epsilon, aa, bb, aba$ } is regular.

### Question 4
**Any infinite Language of palindrome is not regular.**
- False 
- If $\Sigma$ = a, then L will be palindrome because we can make a, aa, aaa, ... through finite automata.
- Over unary alphabet, any infinite language is regular.

### Question 5
**Any infinite Lannguage of string is not regular.**
- False
- Example: L = { $w.w^{R} | w \in \{a\}^{*}$ } is regular.
- Over unary alphabet, any infinite language is regular.

### Question 6
**Language of Palindromes over a & b is not regular.**
- True
- Here any word is not used we consider it as all languages and hence we write it as it is not regular.

**L = { $w.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}$ } is regular.**
- Regular as w belongs to the finite set ab

**L = { $w.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*}$ } is not regular.**
- Not regular as w belongs to infinite set ab

**L = { $w.w^{R} | w \in \{a\}^{*}$ } is regular.**
- Regular although w belongs to infinite set, but it is unary alphabet.

**L = { $w.a.w^{R} | w \in \{a\}^{*}$ } is regular.**
- Regular as w belongs to infinite set, it is unary alphabet and mid alphabet is a.

**L = { $w.b.w^{R} | w \in \{a\}^{*}$ } is not regular.**
- Not regular as w belongs to infinite set, it is unary alphabet but mid alphabet is b.

**L = { $w.(w^{R})^{*} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*}$ } is regular.**
- $(w^{R})^{*}$ = { $\epsilon, w^{R}, w^{R}.w^{R}, w^{R}.w^{R}.w^{R}, ...$ }
- $w.(w^{R})^{*}$ = { $w U w.w^{R} U w.w^{R}.w^{R} U w.w^{R}.w^{R}.w^{R} U ...$ }
- L = $\{ w | w \in \{a,b\}^{*} \} U \{ w.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*} \} U ...$
- As w is defined over $\{a,b\}^{*}$, it will contain all the strings of a and b.
- w is bigger set and all others are subset of w.
- So, union of other doesn't matter at all.
- Hence, given language is regular.

**L = { $w.(w^{R})^{*} | w \in \{a,b\}^{+}$ } is regular.**
- Same concept as above, so it is regular.

**L = { $w.(w^{R})^{+} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*}$ } is not regular.**
- Here, $w.(w^{R})^{*}$ = { $w.w^{R} U w.w^{R}.w^{R} U w.w^{R}.w^{R}.w^{R} U ...$ }
- Notice the first term w is not there.
- Here in every step string matching is done so it is not regular.
- Last questions we had w=parent string which generates all so we need not to think about other strings.

**L = { $w^{*}.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*}$ } is regular.**
- Here, $w^{*} = \epsilon U w U ww U www U ...$
- L = $\{ w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*} \}U \{ w.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*} \} U ...$
- The first term generates all strings over a & b so no need to think about other terms.
- Hence, it is regular.

**L = { $w^{*}.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{+}$ } is regular.**
- Regular

**L = { $w^{+}.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{*}$ } is not regular.**
- Not regular
- Here, $w^{+} = w U ww U www U ...$
- L = $\{ w.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{+} \}U \{ w.w.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{+} \} U ...$
- Here, first term is not there so we need to think about other terms.
- So, it is not regular.

**L = { $w^{+}.w^{R} | w \in \{a,b\}^{+}$ } is not regular.**
- Not regular

- All $w^{R}$ if we replace with w and make further question thier answer will be equal with their respective counterparts.