## Questions

**Which of the following is CFL?**
1. $a^{n}b^{m} | n,m \ge 0$
2. $a^{n}b^{n} | n \ge 0$
3. $a^{n}b^{n}c^{n} | n \ge 0$
4. None of these
- Ans: 1,2

**$a^{n}b^{m} | n,m \ge 0$**
1. Regular
2. CFL
3. CSL
4. Recursive Enumerable
- Ans: 1,2,3,4

**Any Language can be one of 2 types**
```
         Language
             |
    -------------------
    |                 |
  Finite           Infinite
```

**Finite Language**
- L = {$ a^{n}b^{m} | m + n = 15 $}

- If it is FInite then for sure it is Regular
- If it is infinte we need to do 4 tests

1. Infinite Non-Linear Power
    - If it is a Linear power then it is Regular
    - Linear Power: ax + b; a != 0
    - Ex: $a^{2n+3}$ | n >= 0
- If it comes out to be infinite non-linear power then it will neither be Regular nor CFL
- It will be CSL but not CFL
- Ex: $a^{n^{2}}$ | n >= 0
- Ex: $a^{2^{n}}$ | n >= 0
- Ex: $a^{n!}$ | n >= 0
- Ex: $a^{n^{2}} b^{n}$ | n >= 0
- Ex: $a^{p}$ | p is prime
    - For p we need to check whether it is prime or not which includes division hence it is CSL but not CFL

**Ex: $a^{\lceil{\sqrt{n}} \rceil }$ | n >= 0** 
- This given language is regular as it will give a linear power.
- Here, we took ceil that's why we can say it is regular, else if multiplication or division comes then it won't be rwgular as well as CFL.

2. Infinite Power with {+,-,*,/} operations
- For addition for got six cases
    - L = { $ a^{n}b^{m} | n + m = 15 $ } (Finite so Regular)
    - L = { $ a^{n}b^{m} | n + m < 15 $ } (Finite so Regular)
    - L = { $ a^{n}b^{m} | n + m <= 15 $ } (Finite so Regular)
    - L = { $ a^{n}b^{m} | n + m > 15 $ }
       - Here we need t o take care of 17 cases only fron n=0, m=16 to n=16, m=0 (Once the more than 15 barrier is hit we can loop a or b over it) so we need to make finitie states for this. Hence it is Regular.
    - L = { $ a^{n}b^{m} | n + m >= 15 $ } (Finite (Same a above) so Regular)
    - L = { $ a^{n}b^{m} | n + m != 15 $ }
       - We can make this language by subtracting m+n=15(Regular) and languages with 'ba' as substring (Regular) from the language all strings over {a,b} (Regular) so it is Regular.

- For Subtraction
    - L = { $ a^{n}b^{m} | n - m = 15 $ } (Infinite and got comparison of a and b so it is not Regular)
    - Hence other cases too will be not Regular.
    - It is a CFL.

- For multiplication
    - L = { $ a^{n}b^{m} | n * m = 15 $ } (Finite cases for this so Regular)
    - All other cases will be Regular too.

- For Division
    - L = { $ a^{n}b^{m} | n / m = 15 $ } (Infinite and got comparison of a and b so it is not Regular)
    - It wil be CFL.